Reading: Textbook, Chapter One
Complete all participation and challenge questions in Chapter One. You will submit a screenshot showing completion of these questions as assignment CH1.
Reading: Chapter One Slides listed in Resources (optional but recommended)
Assignments:
M1T1 (Orientation Exercise)  - Week 1
M1T2 (Hello, Student) - Week 1
CH1 (Reading, Chapter 1) - Week 2
M1LAB (Apple Salesperson) - Week 2
M1HW1 (Movie Talk) - Week 2


Video Tutorials
Course Playlist (YouTube) - CSC134_FA23 Playlist . I recommend you bookmark this link as it's unlisted. All updated videos will be added to this playlist.
Intro Video: https://youtu.be/SPhaG-di92I
Legacy Videos
These links provide a video explanation for how to complete M1T1 and M1LAB. These videos are "potato" quality -- they're 480p -- but that issue is resolved in later videos.
M1T1- https://youtu.be/qV8vyRi8XBg (opens in new window)
M1LAB - https://youtu.be/8b3SxFzOs9g (opens in new window)


Optional Reading - Introduction to Computers and Programming
(These slides are from a different textbook -- I have included them because sometimes it's useful to look at the material from a different author's perspective.)
C++_Chapter_01.pptx Click for more options C++_Chapter_01.pptx - Alternative Formats (opens in new window)
Sections 1.1 - 1.3 are basic information you may find useful. Sections 1.4 and on get more specific.
C++_Chapter_02.pptx Click for more options C++_Chapter_02.pptx - Alternative Formats
  Click for more options C++_Chapter_02.pptx - Alternative Formats (opens in new window)
We will spend more time on Chapter 2 in the next module.
Additional Reading - Why C++? (slides)
These slides are from Bjarne Stroustrup's freshman course on C++. In addition to being a college professor, Stroustrup also created the C++ language. These slides go over in a general way what C++ is used for and some of the benefits of learning it. (Some material here is not specific to our course, but you may find it interesting.)
1-2_programming.ppt Click for more options 1-2_programming.ppt - Alternative Formats   (opens in new window)


----

Instructions: M1T1 - Hello World
Instructions: M1T1 - Hello World item options Instructions: M1T1 - Hello World
Hide Details
This assignment must be completed WEEK ONE. I recommend completing it ASAP in case you need any technical assistance.
M1T1 (Hello World) 
Download the instructions for M1T1 (Hello World) here.
CSC134_M1T1_Instructions.docx Click for more options CSC134_M1T1_Instructions.docx - Alternative Formats
You may wish to refer to the course intro video, which includes a full walkthrough of me writing and running this program: https://youtu.be/txCSErl9x-c

New Instructions:
- Commit and synch your code
- Confirm it's correct on the GitHub page
- send me that link as the comment or text of the assignment submit
(here's an example link: https://github.com/norrisaftcc/CSC-134_25SP/blob/main/hello.cpp )

Assignment M1T2 expands on the "Hello World" program from the previous assignment. ("M1T2 = Module 1, Tutorial 2")

For this assignment you will expand your program as follows.
First, The file should begin with the standard FTCC program header (10 points). Here's an example as a reminder.


Submit workflow:
- make sure it's in github and correct
- give me the link to the file.cpp specifically (nothing else)
- we're good!

----
// CSC 134
// Assignment Name (M1T2 in this case)
// Your Name
// Date

Second, instead of just printing "Hello World" the program will print the following:

The program should print at least three lines of text when run (70 points).

    Your first and last name
    What program you're enrolled in (such as computer programming, engineering, associate of science, etc.)
    Any additional information about yourself you'd like to volunteer -- job, hobbies, interests, etc.

As a reminder, that code will look something like this (but not exactly like this):

cout << "Information goes here" << endl;
cout << "Another line of text" << endl;

and so forth.
(You'll submit this assignment at the "Submit: M1T2" link below this post.)


Submitting Your Assignment

    Screenshot your program output (using Print Screen, Snipping Tool, etc.) and name the file M1T2_Lastname.png (or .gif, or .jpg)
    Save the program code file as M1T2_Lastname.cpp
    Upload both files.

----
M1LAB (Apple Sales) 
Full instructions: 
CSC134_M1LAB.pdf Click for more options CSC134_M1LAB.pdf - Alternative Formats
 You may wish to reference this video: https://youtu.be/8b3SxFzOs9g
For this assignment we pretend we've been hired by an apple salesperson to write a program to advertise their products. (In this case, it's the fruit, not the company.)
The salesperson's name is Jane Smith, and she has 100 apples for sale. Each apple costs 25 cents.
Our goal is to use repl.it to write a program which displays the salesperson's store name, the number of apples, price per apple, and the price to purchase all of them at once.
Submit your source code along with a screenshot of the running program using the format discussed in the previous assignment.
----

M1HW1 (Movie Talk) 
For this assignment, pick a movie you enjoy (or just a movie you can easily find information about). Along the way, you will use output statements to work with the variable types int, double, and string.
Your program will use cout and variables to briefly talk about this movie. If you look at "Apple Orchard" and remove the part where it calculates the total price of all the apples, that's a pretty similar program in terms of how it operates, even though it's about apples instead of movies.
You should name and create the following variables:

    something to hold the name of the movie
    something to hold the year that it came out
    something to hold the box office gross or some other monetary figure about the movie (using a decimal point)

For example: The movie "Titanic" came out in 1997, and had a worldwide gross of around 2.18 billion dollars.
Your program should then use cout along with these variables to give a brief summary of info about the movie.
Finally, you should use cout to print a few lines that are quotes from the movie, your favorite scene, or just a bit of information that you found interesting. This should be 4-5 lines of text in total, and it should include one or more quotes.
This file should be submitted as the source code, along with a screenshot of the program running, with files named in the usual format (which is in this case M1HW1_Lastname.*)
Additional Notes
What if you want to use the quotation symbol when writing out movie quotes?
We have seen that the quotation symbol is reserved for starting and ending strings
cout << "Like this" << endl
But it's possible to actually use the quote mark itself within a string. It's done by typing \" (backslash, quote) which escapes the quote symbol so that it no longer has a special meaning in that one case.
cout << "John said, \"Like this.\" and waved."
Sources for Movie Info
This one time, you get a pass if you want to use Wikipedia. (Wikipedia isn't the best place to get 100% accurate technical information, but for movies, it should be fine.) IMDB is another option. 
Assignment
----

M1BONUS is 100% optional!

These exercises are not required, but are recommended. Feel free to do any or all of them.The more you complete, the larger bonus will be applied. They are all intentionally more difficult than previous programs, so don't worry if you don't "get it" at first.
For bonus assignments, the usual late penalties do not apply. If you'd like to go back during the next module and try these, you will still receive additional points for your efforts.
For assignment M1BONUS you should write all the problems together as one program. Use cout to label each question (for example, printing "Problem 1" before the first one).
These problems all use fairly simple arithmetic, and so you may find that the "Apple Orchard" program helps you figure out where to start. They all involve declaring variables, doing math with them, and printing a result.
Whenever you have output, be sure to write appropriate cout statements to explain what the output means (so don't just print a number by itself).
1. Given a rectangle with height 8 and width 10, calculate and print the area. (This one is most similar to "Apple Orchard", except these are both of type int. The formula "Area equals length times width" will be useful.)
2. Assume a product is sold for $99.99, and sales tax is 8%. Display the product price, the amount of sales tax, and then the final cost including sales tax. (For handling monetary values, and percentages, you will want to use the double type. "Percent" is "per cent", meaning a 8% sales tax in numerical terms is 0.08 )
3. Assume a pizza is 12 inches in diameter. Using the standard formula, calculate and display the area of that pizza. (You'll need to determine what common geometrical shape best fits a pizza, then look up the formula for area for that shape.)
4. If the pizza from question 3 is cut into 8 pieces, what is the area of each piece?
As usual, upload a zip containing your source code as well as a screenshot of your running program. Your file should be named in the format M1BONUS_Lastname.
