
Current due dates subject to change.
Reading: Zybooks Textbook, Chapter 3
2/23

    M3T1 
    M3T2

3/2

    CH3A
    M3LAB1
    M3T3

3/9

    CH3LAB
    M3LAB2
    M3HW1
    M3BONUS (optional)

Content Folder
Assignments - Instructions
Assignments - Instructions item options Assignments - Instructions
Hide Details
Instructions are listed in this folder. This information will be available throughout the semester.
Content Folder
Assignments - Submissions
Assignments - Submissions item options Assignments - Submissions
Hide Details
Availability:
Item is hidden from students. It was last available on Mar 16, 2025 11:59 PM.
Submission links will be available for M3 for one week after the last assignment is due.
Item
Resources
Resources item options Resources
Hide Details
Course Playlist
Updated with videos for Module 3: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKM4GUn71wofAU8EoUtwbwBj-bA_F9GLt
Basic slides as PDF: 
csc134_m3_branches_slides.pdf Click for more options csc134_m3_branches_slides.pdf - Alternative Formats
 
Further Notes
Discusses some background information about how computers operate, including the basics of circuits and assembly language.
CSC 134 5901 - M3 Notes on Background.pdf Click for more options CSC 134 5901 - M3 Notes on Background.pdf - Alternative Formats  
Sources for this document:
"Operating Systems from 0 to 1" - this book provides such a detailed underpinning to operating systems development that the first 100 pages are all about how computers, assembly, and C work. The material relates equally to C++, since a C++ compiler converts your code into assembly.
https://github.com/tuhdo/os01/blob/master/Operating_Systems_From_0_to_1.pdf
Youtube User Ben Eater has a video, "Hello World on a 6502", as well as a number of videos where he works with computer hardware at the lowest level possible (such as creating a very simple VGA video card with a series of circuits). In this playlist, he builds a computer from scratch using a 6502 processor.
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLowKtXNTBypFbtuVMUVXNR0z1mu7dp7eH


Optional Slides
Gaddis Chapter 4, Making Decisions
Chapter Slides: 
SOW_C++_CSO_Chapter_04.pptx Click for more options SOW_C++_CSO_Chapter_04.pptx - Alternative Formats  I recommend taking this chapter in two halves. The first part covers if and if/else, while the second part gets into combining if statements in more complicated ways.
Additional References
Here's slides from a different book about the process of computation in general in C++. 
4_computation.ppt Click for more options 4_computation.ppt - Alternative Formats  These get into a lot of topics we're not fully covering, but is useful as a preview.
Examples from Previous Class Sections (optional)
Here's an example program that calculates a list of squares. This program uses the while command, which you will see in the next module. It works like the if command, but instead of executing the code once if the condition is true, it continues to execute while the condition is true.
example1_feb24.txt Click for more options
This example program uses functions, another language feature we will use in more detail later, to organize a homework assignment into a form where each question is separated. 
example2_feb27 Click for more options  
Ignoring Invalid Input
This is a hard topic to research, because you'll get a lot of differing answers. Attached is an example that one of my past students had the best luck with. fix_CIN_Example.zip Click for more options
 
Converting a string to lowercase
There's a few ways, but I think the transform method here is the best option for now.
#include <iostream>
#include <string>
#include <algorithm>
#include <cctype>
int main() {
    std::string str = "Hello, World!";
    std::transform(str.begin(), str.end(), str.begin(),
                   [](unsigned char c) { return std::tolower(c); });
    std::cout << str << std::endl;  // Output: hello, world!
    return 0;
}


note some of these details may not be important