
In this module, you will learn how to:
Create basic C++ programs with text output
Identify and use integer, double, and string variables
Read user input
Perform basic calculations
---
REMOVE DATES
Reading - Zybooks, CH2 (2/16)
M2T1 (2/9)
M2T2 (2/9)
Reading - Zybooks, CH2LAB (2/16)
M2LAB1 (2/16)
M2LAB2 (2/16)
M2HW1 (2/23)
M2BONUS (optional) (2/23)
----
Additional Resources
C++ Language Reference (Tony Gaddis)
C++ Language Companion.pdf Click for more options C++ Language Companion.pdf - Alternative Formats (opens in new window) This PDF covers much of the material from the previous textbook and can be useful as a reference. The material in this module is covered in Chapters 1 and 2 of this PDF.
Videos
Course Playlist (YouTube) - https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKM4GUn71wofAU8EoUtwbwBj-bA_F9GLt . I recommend you bookmark this link as it's unlisted. All updated videos will be added to this playlist.
Installing Code::Blocks -  https://youtu.be/wBpDb9AE4bc (opens in new window)
Slides
These slides come from a non Zybooks textbook. You may find them useful as optional reference material since they cover this material in a slightly different way.
Slides: Gaddis Chapter Two
M2_Gaddis_C++_Chapter_02.pdf (opens in new window) Click for more options M2_Gaddis_C++_Chapter_02.pdf (opens in new window) - Alternative Formats
These slides review the material from Chapter 2 in your textbook.
Slides: Gaddis Chapter Three
SOW_C++_CSO_Chapter_03.pdf Click for more options SOW_C++_CSO_Chapter_03.pdf - Alternative Formats  (opens in new window)
These slides have been converted to PDF and should be viewable in your browser. All the "Suggested Improvements" portions of the homework assignment can be implemented using methods covered in this document.

Printing $ values (such as $14.00)
This is handy if you only want to show 2 decimal places

// at the top of the file, under #include <iostream>
#include <iomanip>

// once, before the output
cout << fixed << setprecision(2);


"Not on the Test" - possibly interesting items you are not required to study.

Turing machines (basis for the design of all computers) - https://youtu.be/dNRDvLACg5Q

A Turing machine made out of wood - https://youtu.be/vo8izCKHiF0

Classes and objects - 


gaddis_intro_to_classes.pdf  
  Click for more options 
  -----
assignments
----
Here's where we started: 
m1lab1_original.pdf Click for more options m1lab1_original.pdf - Alternative Formats
 
M2T1
In M2T1, we will use the cin method described in the book to create a version of the Apple Sales program that responds to user input.
(Instead of Jane Smith, it will be you, and you will set the number and price of the apples.)
In other words, you will modify the code you already wrote. Instead of setting name, apples, and pricePerApple by hard coding their values, you will set their values by cin. After that, the program proceeds as it did before, but with the user entered values.
You might notice some unusual behavior if the name you enter is more than one word; we'll look at that side effect later.
A Quick Example

// Here's the code you would use for name. 
// apples and pricePerApple should work in a similar fashion.

string name;     // replaces the line  string name = "Your Name"; 

cout << "Please enter your name: ";     // ask the user for input

cin >> name;     // wait for input, place it in name


One common mistake is to use cin without first printing a "prompt", or question for the user, with cout. (Imagine walking up to a person, thinking "What's your name?" but not saying it out loud, and just staring at them until they said their name. That's basically what the program is doing if you don't print a prompt first.)
Relevant video can be found in the playlist, or here: https://youtu.be/NsYV3eejK4s
Continuing from Before
It's helpful to look at what we've done, and build on that. In M1LAB we did the original Apple Sales program, and this is mostly just a continuation of that but with user input.

Item
M2T2
M2T2 item options M2T2
Hide Details
M2T2
In M2T2 we will build a simple receipt calculator for the bill from a restaurant.
The full YouTube playlist contains this video.
This video itself is PENDING MAKE NEW VID
Program Requirements
If you're feeling adventurous, you might try to complete this program before watching the video. We've already used most of the tools we'll need -- declaring variables, doing math to calculate values that we place into variables, and printing our output.
This program should take the price of a meal, which is $5.99, and print out a simple text receipt. It should include:

    The price before tax
    The amount of tax owed (8%)
    The total including tax

Brief Explanation
Most programs can be summarized simply as "Input, Calculation, and Output." Sometimes this is phrased as "Read, Evaluate, Print", which is where the REP part of the REPL acronym comes from. (REPL = Read, Evaluate, Print, and Loop). 
For this program, we're not yet working with user input, so we simply set our variables to the values we want. We need meal price, tax, and total. But wait -- tax could have two meanings. Is it the percent tax, or the $ amount of tax? So we need four variables: meal price, tax percent, tax amount, and total.
Next we'll use multiplication to find the tax amount, and then addition to find the total.
Finally we use the usual method to print our output.
Writing Pseudocode - Planning Out Your Program
When writing a program, it's important to plan out what you want to do in English before you try to translate that into C++.
Here's an analogy: Say I am learning Spanish, and I plan to visit Barcelona and look at some of the books they have.
So I have a general idea:
"Ask somebody where I can find a lot of books."
I will then come up with pseudocode ("fake code"), which states what I want to do in English.
ask someone where the library is
Finally, I translate that pseudocode into the language I want to use (Spanish in this case). That is:
donde esta la bibliotecha
If I didn't know that a library is where I could find books, then I wouldn't be able to translate "library" into Spanish.
When you get to the step where you're translating, you have specific technical issues to worry about. Here, I need to know if a library is masculine or feminine in Spanish. (The equivalent of that in C++ is remembering things like "cout is how I print output" and "double is the type I want to use if I have decimal point numbers".)
TLDR: You can't tell a computer what to do, unless you are able to tell yourself how to do it first.
So here's my pseudocode for the receipt calculator:
// Declare variables
// Calculate the values
// Print the results
This is pretty simple pseudocode, but it provides an "outline" for us to hang our code on. It's important that you don't skip this step.
When complete, submit the assignment under Assignments - Submissions -> M2T1.
Item
M2LAB1
M2LAB1 item options M2LAB1
Hide Details
M2LAB1
2/5/2025 - I would like you to do this assignment on your own, and ask for help when you need it!
NOTE: This assignment involves planning out a full program step-by-step. The reading 2.9 Problem Solving: First Do It By Hand is a very good place to start. I'd complete that before continuing this assignment.
There are a lot of moving parts in this program, so don't rush.
For assignment M2LAB1, you should read through 3.11 A Case Study in the Chapter 3 slides, and using the information provided, get the case study program working.
This PDF contains section 3.11 by itself.
Gaddis_CPP+CH3_pg57-70.pdf Click for more options Gaddis_CPP+CH3_pg57-70.pdf - Alternative Formats
There's a lot going on in these slides, so I suggest looking through these pages once to get an overview, then reading them again for details.
If we simplified this problem as much as possible, it would boil down to "Calculate the volume of a cube". That's fairly simple: it's length times width times height. But this example deals with a business that builds crates, so knowing the size of the crate is just the first step, they have to figure out what price will make them a profit.
While you can simply type in the code as is, it's important that you try to understand why Gaddis is doing the things he's doing in the code. This means the charts and pseudocode are worth studying.
You will generally not be required to create these charts yourself, but you will need to be able to write pseudocode from time to time.
Item
M2LAB2 - Graphics
M2LAB2 - Graphics item options M2LAB2 - Graphics
Hide Details
For M2LAB2, we're going to learn the basics of Turtle Graphics.
This is going to mean we'll be writing some Python code. Don't worry -- Python is even easier to pick up than C++, and we'll only need a bit of it.
The general idea of Turtle graphics is that we're commanding a robot holding a pen (the "turtle") to draw graphics for us.
Here's some starting material.

Python_Turtle_part1.pdf Click for more options Python_Turtle_part1.pdf - Alternative Formats
Python_Turtle_part2.pdf Click for more options Python_Turtle_part2.pdf - Alternative Formats
turtle1.py Click for more options
Full examples to start with: turtle_examples.zip Click for more options
 New version with goto: 
turtle9_goto.py Click for more options
 
Completing the Assignment
You should draw "something interesting". You have some leeway on this.
Start by drawing a few geometrical shapes (square, hexagon, ...)
Then either go for a simple diagram or image, or your initials.
We will cover both relative and absolute navigation, and you can use either for the second part. 
Submit a screenshot of your image as well as M2LAB2.py.
Advanced: Fill Colors

    Filling a Polygon: To fill a polygon, follow these steps:
        Define a filling color using turtle.fillcolor().
        Start the filling operation with turtle.begin_fill().
        Perform your turtle drawing (e.g., create the polygon).
        End the filling operation with turtle.end_fill().

More tricks:
Full list of Turtle color names: CS111 - Turtle Colors 
Item
M2HW1
M2HW1 item options M2HW1
Hide Details
All questions are listed below.
You can download a PDF copy of this homework assignment here:
CSC134_M2HW1.pdf Click for more options CSC134_M2HW1.pdf - Alternative Formats
Grading Tiers:
This assignment introduces Grading Tiers. You are responsible for listing what tier you are attempting in your comment headers. (If you do not, I will assume "Bronze".) The tier indicates the maximum possible grade for the assignment. Here is an example:

/*
CSC 134
M2HW1 - Silver
Name
Date
*/

Please note that it is often twice as much work to get a maximum grade of 100 than for a maximum grade of 80. This is intentional.

Bronze (up to 80/100): Complete two questions

Silver (up to 90/100): Complete three questions

Gold (up to 100/100): Complete four questions
Bonus: Add suggested improvements.

This is an assignment with a lot of parts, so I recommend you tackle one problem at a time. Try to get a basic version working before adding in improvements.
You can either write multiple short programs, or make one program that answers each question. Either way, be sure to label your work with cout statements such as "Question 1", etc. to make the output easy to follow.

Question 1. Write a program that simulates banking transactions using the following requirements.

The program should ask the user for their name. It should then ask for the following information (all units are dollars):

    Starting account balance

    Amount of deposit

    Amount of withdrawal

The program should then display the following information:

    Name on the account

    Account number ( you can generate this any way you see fit -- a number you pick, or a random number, for example )

    Final account balance.

(Suggested improvements: Allow the name to contain whitespace, and print all money amounts with two decimal places. The techniques needed to do both are found in “Gaddis Chapter 3 Slides” under Resources.)

Question 2. Use the M2LAB1 program as a base for this question.

General Crates has found that the updated cost per cubic foot for storage is now 0.3, due to economic fluctuations.
Management has determined that they cannot currently raise their charge per cubic foot above 0.52 without losing customers.
Modify the program to match these new conditions.

(Suggested improvements: print all money amounts with two decimal places. The technique to do this is found in the “Gaddis Chapter 3 Slides” under Resources.)

Question 3. You are throwing a pizza party. Each visitor should get three slices of pizza.

The program should ask how many pizzas you order, how many slices per pizza, and how many visitors are coming.
The program should calculate and display how many pieces of pizza are left over.

Question 4. Since FTCC has sports teams, you've been hired to write a cheering program.

The program should output this message:

Let's go FTCC

Let's go FTCC

Let's go FTCC

Let's go Trojans

 

You should use the following variables in your cout statements:

string school, team; 

Suggested Improvements: For bonus points, meet these additional constraints:

A. You can't print out any raw strings ("that look like this"), only string variables.
B. you can only use these string variables:
string letsGo, school, team, cheerOne, cheerTwo;
C. You must use string concatenation to build the strings cheerOne and cheerTwo .
String concatenation means to use the + operator. An example:
string fullName = firstName + " " + lastName;
Once you've finishing answering these questions, upload screenshots of the running program and your ZIP of the source code as usual.
If you're having trouble working with all of these questions in the same file, it is OK for you to create separate files such as M2HW1_Lastname_Q1, and so on. We will cover how to better organize large files in future modules.

 

Item
M2BONUS
M2BONUS item options M2BONUS
Hide Details
For this bonus lab, we're going to see how much of our experience with Turtle graphics can be applied to the Raylib graphics library for C/C++.
Library: https://www.raylib.com/ (goes to itch.io link, donation NOT necessary!)
The install will be blocked by Windows SmartScreen, so you'll want to click "more" and allow the install. It will take a few minutes. If you have a flash drive, keep a copy of the install for later.
The main raylib page has examples, a cheatsheet, link to a wiki, etc. We'll find a few techniques and use them, based on some of the simple examples.
What should I do with this?
Similar to the Python turtle lab, we're looking to create some simple but interesting combination of graphics inside a main screen. 
COLOR NAMES
Color colors[MAX_COLORS_COUNT] = { DARKGRAY, MAROON, ORANGE, DARKGREEN, DARKBLUE, DARKPURPLE, DARKBROWN, GRAY, RED, GOLD, LIME, BLUE, VIOLET, BROWN, LIGHTGRAY, PINK, YELLOW, GREEN, SKYBLUE, PURPLE, BEIGE }; 
// also RAYWHITE for white
Here's the example I came up with -- I'm sure yours will look more interesting. Feel free to base your scene on a "demake" of a Atari or NES or Game Boy game. m2bonus_norris_raylib.c Click for more options
 
Here is a very basic start to the "DVD Menu" bouncing text: 
basic_bouncing_text.c Click for more options
 
Here's the starter code from 2/12 that just moves the player around:

m2bonus_norrisa_0212.c Click for more options
 
Item
M2BONUS
M2BONUS item options M2BONUS
Hide Details
Availability:
Item is hidden from students.
For this bonus lab, we're going to see how much of our experience with Turtle graphics can be applied to the Raylib graphics library for C/C++.
Library: https://www.raylib.com/ (goes to itch.io link, donation NOT necessary!)
The install will be blocked by Windows SmartScreen, so you'll want to click "more" and allow the install. It will take a few minutes. If you have a flash drive, keep a copy of the install for later.
The main raylib page has examples, a cheatsheet, link to a wiki, etc. We'll find a few techniques and use them, based on some of the simple examples.
What should I do with this?
Similar to the Python turtle lab, we're looking to create some simple but interesting combination of graphics inside a main screen. 
COLOR NAMES
Color colors[MAX_COLORS_COUNT] = { DARKGRAY, MAROON, ORANGE, DARKGREEN, DARKBLUE, DARKPURPLE, DARKBROWN, GRAY, RED, GOLD, LIME, BLUE, VIOLET, BROWN, LIGHTGRAY, PINK, YELLOW, GREEN, SKYBLUE, PURPLE, BEIGE }; 
// also RAYWHITE for white
Here's the example I came up with -- I'm sure yours will look more interesting. Feel free to base your scene on a "demake" of a Atari or NES or Game Boy game.

m2bonus_norris_raylib.c Click for more options
 

note that the bonus assignments are about COMPUTATIONAL THINKING, that's why we don't feel obliged to stick to c++ for all of them.
----
